hello everyone its Elena and today I'll
be doing a little review of my first
term here at the University of Cambridge
I'm a law student at st. John's College
and I'm gonna start with workload and
academics because I think that's the
thing that most people think of when
they think of Cambridge but I'm also
going to talk about extracurricular
social life and housing and the
accommodations here now regarding
workload and academics I can say that
this is probably the most intense
academic course I've ever done like you
do so much in so little time because our
champs every eight weeks but there's so
much content that is covered in these
eight weeks it's crazy and for a law
it's especially difficult because lowers
a subject that you usually haven't
studied before coming to university so
you are learning about the law but at
the same time you're also learning how
to study law because you don't really
know how to approach the subject yet but
I do think we've gotten great support at
my college because even before we just
started - cause we already had a session
on how to study and how to write an
essay and we had a mock supervision
supervisions our fortnightly meetings
with your supervisor which is I'm a PhD
student or a fellow and they go through
readings and problem questions that they
set for you and that just really helps
to consolidate your knowledge on a topic
and we had a mock supervision and before
we even started a course so we had some
reading set before coming to Cambridge
and I think it's really really helped
because it just gave us a good idea of
what is expected of us for supervision
how to approach the material and just
really helped and you know made you less
scared of your first real supervision as
a first-year law student we have to take
four courses and then there's a half
paper but that half paper is about
methodology and skills and that course
is basically gone to sleep after free
introductory lectures on our first day
where we were told not to take notes so
I guess they were not that relevant and
basically the course is going to
reawaken second term and then we're
gonna have a few more sessions and we
have to write a paper which is fail past
and that's it so the more important ones
are the other four courses and those are
constitutional or civil or criminal law
and tort law I really like them except
maybe for civil law civil law is quite
complicated it's ancient law so you
don't really know exactly what was the
rule
everything because you only have limited
evidence so for just you guys don't know
civil law is Roman law and it's really
hard sometimes to really know what is
going on in the course because a lot of
times and you do have a question like
when you think you understand something
you're like okay so wait but what if
this particular situation happened and
you just don't know because you don't
have evidence and that's a little bit
frustrating but I was told by my second
year that apparently Roman law confuses
everybody in first term starts to make
sense in second term and then you will
love it in fair term and I hope this
will be true for my year because right
now we are all a little bit confused I'm
not I really really love my cause and
what I found so amazing is that when you
read academic papers from people who are
you know very respected academics in the
field and then you go to a lecture and
the person who wrote that paper is your
lecturer and you just sit there you're
like wow this is just crazy sometimes
because you read their books and their
journal articles and you know you debate
about the ideas and then they just walk
into your lecture hall and tell you more
about it and that's just really really
cool and I absolutely love that and I
really really enjoy it mystery
provisions because I think they just
really helped me to you know think about
what is my opinion on this and to also
fully understand academics arguments and
to point out things that I probably
would have missed had I just worked
through the material by myself now there
is a lot of work to be done in law and
my college recommends 40 hours of work
outside supervisions and lectures for
students and I think forty hours a week
that is very very ambitious and I think
then you just do law like there's
nothing else that you're doing and I
don't think that's very healthy and I do
you think you can generally deal with
the workload with under forty hours but
you do need to work a lot full or
obviously I did a video on time
management if you guys are interested in
that I'm gonna link it up there and you
guys can just click on that but I'm
generally I do think if you manage your
time well you don't need to work forty
hours a week because that is just way
too much because I think you do need to
do some extracurriculars or at least go
out with friends in order to just
maintain your mental health now we have
around twelve hours of lectures a week
and then we have two supervisions a week
which are one hour we also have one
essay a week because we need to hand in
sh / supervisor / term so that's how we
get to that one essay a week
I also took an optional extra class
which is animal rights law and I
absolutely love the class and it's just
one hour a week but we have set reading
before but I really really enjoy the
class because it's a relatively new
field for research not many people are
working in Android's Louis academics who
are researching the field but to be
honest I think it's really really
important as a field and the lecturers
are just amazing and they're teaching it
in a really really great way and we see
more exciting is that I'm actually
working on a paper with another student
and the professor teaching the course
and it's just so cool because I'm
literally an undergraduate student in my
first year and I don't think I would
have gotten the opportunity to do
research that early in my degree
anywhere else so that's really really
cool I mean I have no idea how our paper
is going to turn out and if it's even
going to be good but just the
opportunity to work on this as a
first-year student is really really
amazing and I'm super super grateful for
it now one thing I should say about
academics though is that University is a
very different way of grading people and
I to get used to that because in high
school they used to tell you what you
did well in and then they sugarcoat what
you didn't do so well and he is like
okay um you did well in this but it's
like one sentence thing and then all the
things that you missed or you weren't
good at and this can be like really
really frustrating because you just feel
like you failed and I remember reading
my supervision reports at the end of the
term and I felt like an absolute failure
um and then I went to my meeting with my
director of studies and then I was at a
meeting with my tutor and I told them
well okay I know what my supervision
reports weren't great pizza kicked me
out and my doctor studies at my future
were like what are you talking about
those were quite good supervision
reports and I'm like did we read the
same report because it doesn't feel like
it and they were like yeah like you know
in university we are going to be more
critical of you and we do want to show
you where you can improve instead of you
know just telling you where you already
did great in but you know at times you
just want to hear that you did something
good and I remember when I first met my
supervision reports I just felt like
such a failure but when I heard that
those were out you know bad
vision reports I felt a lot better but
to be honest I was quite scared when I
first read it and I think this is
something I'm still getting used to like
how different you are graded and
assessed in university and then like how
they get feedback because it's just
quite different but I think I'm gonna be
used to this by the end of second term
okay let's move on to extracurriculars
now I did an entire video on all the
extracurriculars I'm doing because I'm
doing quite a lot so if you guys are
interested in that I'm gonna link it up
there for you and in the info box below
so you can just click on that but I did
a total of eight extracurriculars and I
was on a committee of two societies and
I absolutely loved doing my
extracurriculars my extracurriculars are
a great way of just you know getting
your mind off your degree and I think
it's really really important
like especially for a degree as intense
as law you shouldn't just be doing a law
okay you need something else in your
life that's why I love doing
extracurriculars you meet new people you
make new friends and you just have a few
hours to yourself where you're not
thinking about your degree or passing
that exam and that's why I absolutely
loved it now I'm doing a lot of
extracurricular so I didn't have as much
free time for you know just chilling on
my bed watching Netflix etc but I do
think that for me it was really really
rewarding and I don't regret taking them
since I did an entire video on
extracurriculars I'm keeping it short
and we're moving on to social life now
how do people come to Cambridge in this
get like whether they can actually have
a social life and go out and party and
stuff and you can definitely do that now
personally I'm not someone who goes out
really and because I'm someone who's
just a lot more comfortable being on my
bed you know with some fries and a kid
Netflix movie so yeah that's just my
preference but I do know people in my
college in my degree who are going out
at least once a week and they are doing
absolutely fine so you can definitely do
that now one of the things that I do
find a little bit concerning about
Cambridge is that I do feel like if you
are not as financially well-off it can
be harder for you to you know go for all
the social things and I think I'm saying
this because I came from a high school
where was really really important that
regardless of your socio-economic
background you could join all activities
which is why we never had to pay for any
of these activities and I do thing you
know obviously your university is gonna
be a little different but for me I was
just shocked
in fact that you have to pay your way
into many societies they charge you and
I mean the Cambridge Union charges you
over 100 pounds which is a little bit
excessive in my opinion for society
membership and if you're a student who
is here on a bursary it can be really
hard to afford that I managed not to
really spend a lot of money on you know
joining societies or anything I think
the only Society are joined where I
actually had to pay was came to
University Rifle Association but you're
paying them because they need to
maintain their equipment but you can
also just do some stuff with your
friends I made a few friends in my
course and also outside my course I
wanted my favorite things to do it those
who have a friend quite a few times we
just went to McDonald's got a lot of
food came back to my room started
watching some romantic comedy on that
sleeve ate all of that McDonald's food I
had enjoyed the movie we were like
screaming crying and laughing through it
and then we usually just fell into a
food coma on my bad and we do this quite
a few times and it was just so so
enjoyable and I loved it all died you
say my friend is committed to get me off
my McDonald's addiction because I go to
McDonald's way too many times and I know
it but I really really like the food so
yeah and people my cause are so lovely
and adorable and I'm so so grateful that
I have them as my peers and I especially
realized this when I was ill for a few
days and I couldn't go to lectures and I
had a fever it was just really bad I was
just in my room and I literally just
slept like I think in 48 hours I
probably slept like 40 hours so yeah I
was I really wasn't doing well and they
all you know sent me their notes from
lectures one of them went grocery
shopping for me everyone went to the
pharmacy and they just all came by and
check that I was doing fine and I was
just so so grateful for all of them and
it just showed me how supported they are
and I'm just so so grateful to have them
I can't let's get to the most important
thing
food so the food at my college is
actually really really good
I mean I came from a boarding school
where the food was like okay but it
wasn't that great but coming to
Cambridge I was just so so excited by
the food in debauchery like oh my god
it's just amazing I love it I really
really love it
and obviously then we also at formal
performers are very formal dinners that
we have in a formal hall which looks
very very fancy and you have to wear
your gown and you have to dress up and
it's really really cool
it's a free course meal and that's like
a special occasion when you go there you
can book that at almost any day during
the week talking about cooking my
flatmate and I have a kitchen to
ourselves in our apartment
it's super super small so yeah but you
can definitely cook there we also have
our bathroom that only the two of us
share which is great and each of us has
their own room and my room is super
super big like I was so surprised when I
came here and I realized what a great
room I got like I just couldn't believe
it
I mean I came from a boarding school
where I shared a room with three other
girls and I had a corner in that room to
myself and now I have a huge room to
myself and that's just really really
cool and I absolutely love my room and
they do spoil us quite a bit because we
had people called bettas and they come
once a week and they clean our bathrooms
or kitchens and our rooms for us and it
was great because we don't have to do it
ourselves and I'm just so so grateful
for them but I do feel like it makes you
be less independent like I feel like I
had to be more independent in boarding
school that I have to be here but I
really really appreciate it
so yeah the one thing that is a little
bit inconvenient is doing laundry
because I'm literally at this end of the
college and the laundry room is like
here so if I want to do laundry I have
to take like a seven to ten minute walk
with my laundry bag which doesn't sound
bad and it isn't but here's the thing
okay
imagine it is raining and it is like two
degrees Celsius and you are doing that
seven-minute walk with your heavy
laundry bag it is not great yeah that is
not that great but honestly that is like
a minor minor fee and yeah that is my
review of my
chairman cambridge i'm it was a very
very intense experience but it was also
very rewarding and i'm super super
grateful for having had that experience
and I'm really looking forward to second
term alder my second term is gonna start
with mock exams so I do have to work
over the winter break but nonetheless I
am excited for second term and yeah I
hope you guys enjoyed this video thank
you so much for watching have a nice day
bye